---
layout: post
title: 2016 wrap up / 2017 goals
comments: true
---

At the beginning on 2016, I wrote down some personal goals I wanted to accomplish by the end of the year. Now that the year is wrapping up and another one approaches, I thought I'd follow up on my goals from 2016 and jot down my new goals for 2017.

<h2 class="blog-subhead">2016 Goals (and updates):</h2>

* **Start meditating frequently**
  * <span class="green-check">&#10004;</span> - This goal obviously wasn't very specific. I'm marking it complete as I did meditate more frequently compared to last year. But, as you'll read in a bit, I'll make this more specific for next year.
* **Make running a routine again**
  * <span class="red-x">&times;</span> - Nope. Not even close.
* **Start investing**
  * <span class="green-check">&#10004;</span> - I've already been contributing to my 401k ever since I got my first job out of college, but I had been wanting to do more investing for my future. Sarah and I did just that by opening and contributing monthly to an account with Betterment.
* **Finish reading 12 books**
  * <span class="red-x">&times;</span> and <span class="green-check">&#10004;</span> - I'm giving myself the "<span class="red-x">&times;</span>" because I did not finish 12 books; I only finished 7 this year. However, I'm giving myself the "<span class="green-check">&#10004;</span>" because this goal was super ambitious for me, and I'm still proud of myself for completing 7 books.
* **Get commissioned illustration work**
  * <span class="green-check">&#10004;</span> - I actually just completed my first commissioned illustration work a week or so ago. Excited for more to come in 2017 as you'll see below.
* **Cut out toxic chemicals (deodorant, shampoo, etc...)**
  * <span class="green-check">&#10004;</span> - Sarah and I have switched to chemical-free deodorant and toothpaste, and we now use a safer, organic shampoo. We still have a long way to go to _completely_ remove all harmful chemicals, but we made good progress this year.
* **Delete my Facebook account**
  * <span class="red-x">&times;</span> - Not sure if I still want to do this or not. I did, however, remove the Facebook app from my phone so that I wouldn't look at it as often.
* **Blog / write more**
  * <span class="green-check">&#10004;</span> - In 2015, I wrote one blog post. This is my second blog post of 2016, so ipso facto - check.
* **Listen to podcasts more often**
  * <span class="green-check">&#10004;</span> - Again, this goal was too broad. I did listen to podcasts more often this year even though that's hard to measure.

<h2 class="blog-subhead">Other notes on 2016:</h2>

This wasn't a goal at the beginning of 2016, but Sarah and I decided to stop eating meat and dairy, as well as all animal products back in February. I never thought I would have ever wanted to go vegan, but it's been one of the best decisions of my life. I feel healthier and I know I'm doing _something_ to help combat global warming - which is a big issue for me. We also moved to Tulsa earlier this year and we absolutely love it here. I don't think it's our last stop, but we've really enjoyed being in Tulsa.

Anyway, on to 2017...

<h2 class="blog-subhead">2017 Goals:</h2>

* **Set up an Etsy shop for my pet illustrations**
  * And sell at least 7 commissioned portraits
* **Daily meditation for at least 5 minutes**
* **Read 8 books**
* **30 minute prep on Sunday afternoon/evenings to prepare for the week ahead**
* **Exercise**
  * Complete _Insanity_ 4 times
  * Run or some other light workout in-between Insanity sessions
  * Start doing yoga with Sarah a couple days a week

I decided to give myself fewer goals this year, because I think that'll help me stay focused and accomplish them all. They are also more specific so that I can measure whether or not I actually complete them. Here's to another year!
